README.md, before:

ISCache
=======

Introduction
------------

ISCache is intended to be a transport agnostic way to cache and work with data: it may be desirable to cache files within custom domains such as Google Drive or Dropbox, to generate and cache locally generated thumbnails (e.g. rendering a PDF) or caching data over a completely proprietary mechanism. In order to support this, fetches are performed by objects which implement the `ISCacheHandler` protocol.

Getting Started
---------------

### Items

#### Observing

* providing an `ISCacheBlock` which will receive callbacks during the lifetime of the image fetch
* `ISCacheItem` [key-value observing](https://developer.apple.com/library/mac/documentation/cocoa/conceptual/KeyValueObserving/KeyValueObserving.html)
* implemetning the `ISCacheObserver` protocol and observing `ISCache` by means of `addObserver:` and `removeObserver:`

#### Contexts

### Images

ISCache provides a handy UIImage extension for loading images. Image loading are performed using GCD to prevent large images from blocking the UI making it ideal for use in UITableViewCells and UICollectionViewCells:

```objc
#import <ISCache/ISCache.h>

UIImage *placeholder = [UIImage imageNamed:@"placeholder.png"];

[self.imageView setImageWithIdentifier:@"http://www.example.com/image.png"
                               context:ISCacheImageContext
                              userInfo:nil
                      placeholderImage:placeholder
                                 block:NULL];
```

Cached images can be resized by providing the resizing settings in the userInfo:

```objc
[self.imageView setImageWithIdentifier:@"http://www.example.com/image.png"
                               context:ISCacheImageContext
                              userInfo:@{@"width": @152.0,
                                         @"height": @152.0,
                                         @"scale": @(ISScalingCacheHandlerScaleAspectFill)}
                      placeholderImage:placeholder
                                 block:NULL];
```

#### Cancellation

Repeated calls to `setImageWithIdentifier:context:userInfo:placeholderImage:completionBlock:` will cancel any previous fetches. Fetches will also be cancelled when the UIImageView is dealloced. Once a fetch is cancelled the `ISCacheBlock` will receive no further updates. If the item fetch has already completed (and the item is in state `ISCacheItemStateFound`) the cancellation will have no effect and the item will remain in the cache.

Fetches can also be explicitly cancelled as follows:

```objc
[self.imageView cancelSetImage];
```

If you wish to prevent the automatic cancellation of fetches, you can set the following property:

```objc
self.imageView.automaticallyCancelsFetches = NO;
```

### Management and observing

Once an image has been set you are free to manage the item fetch lifecycle using the mechanisms introduced in the previous sections as `setImageWithIdentifier:context:userInfo:placeholderImage:block` offers the same mechanisms as the more general `fetchItem:context:userInfo:block:`.

For example, a simple image fetch which displays progress and hides and shows the UIProgressView and UIImageView might use the block mechanism as follows:

```objc
// Show the progress view and hide the image view.
self.imageView.hidden = YES;
self.progressView.hidden = NO;

// Set the image.
[self.imageView setImageWithIdentifier:@"http://www.example.com/image.png"
                               context:ISCacheImageContext
                              userInfo:nil
                      placeholderImage:placeholder
                                 block:^(ISCacheItem *item) {
       
                                     if (item.state == ISCacheItemStateInProgress) {
       
                                       // Update the progress view.
                                       self.progressView.visible = item.progress;
       
                                     } else if (item.state == ISCacheItemStateFound) {
       
                                       // Hide the progress view and show the image view.
                                       self.imageView.hidden = NO;
                                       self.progressView.hidden = YES;
       
                                     }
       
                                     // Indicate that we still wish to receive updates.
                                     return ISCacheBlockStateContinue;
       
                                   }];
```

*A more thorough implementation would also use the `ISCacheItemStateNotFound` state and the `lastError` property to check for unexpected errors or cancellations.*

It is also possible to combine this with direct calls to `ISCache` to determine the cache item state before showing the progress view (to avoid it flickering when the image is already present in the cache):

```objc
// Shared arguments.
NSString *url = @"http://www.example.com/image.png";
NSDictionary *userDict = nil;

// Fetch the current cache item to allow us to inspect its state.
// It is important to use the same userDict as we will use when setting the image
// as this is used to identify the item in the cache.
ISCache *defaultCache = [ISCache defaultCache];
ISCacheItem *item = [defaultCache itemForIdentifier:url
                                            context:ISCacheImageContext
                                           userDict:userDict]

// Only show the progress view if the item doesn't exist.
if (item.state == ISCacheItemStateNotFound) {
  self.imageView.hidden = NO;
  self.progressView.hidden = YES;
} else {
  self.imageView.hidden = YES;
  self.progressView.hidden = NO;
}

// Set the image.
[self.imageView setImageWithIdentifier:url
                               context:ISCacheImageContext
                              userInfo:userInfo
                      placeholderImage:placeholder
                                 block:^(ISCacheItem *item) {
                                     ...
                                   }];
```


Custom handlers
---------------

### Handler lifecycle

Handlers are transient objects; they exist for a single fetch attempt of a cache item.

### Registering a custom handler

In order to provide maximum flexibility, `ISCache` makes use of the factory design pattern for constructing new handlers. `ISCacheSimpleHandlerFactory` is provided as an off-the-shelf factory which will simply alloc-init any class provided so long as it implements the ISCacheHandler protocol. More complex handlers which require non-trivial initialization (e.g. to share state across handlers) will have to implement their own ISCacheHandlerFactory.

While the `ISCacheHTTPHandler` is automatically registered for the `ISCacheURLContext`, the code which does this serves as a good example of how to register your own ISCacheHandlerFactory and ISCacheHandler:

```objc
ISCache *defaultCache = [ISCache defaultCache];

ISCacheSimpleHandlerFactory *httpFactory = [ISCacheSimpleHandlerFactory
                                            factoryWithClass:[ISCacheHTTPHandler class]];
[defaultCache registerFactory:httpFactory
                   forContext:ISCacheURLContext];
```

*This code will actually cause ISCache to throw an exception as you are not allowed to register more than one handler per context.*

### Completion actions

...

Notes
-----

Future
------

Thanks
------

Commit message:

Renaming userInfo to preferences to reflect its actual use.

README.md, after:

ISCache
=======

Introduction
------------

ISCache is intended to be a transport agnostic way to cache and work with data: it may be desirable to cache files within custom domains such as Google Drive or Dropbox, to generate and cache locally generated thumbnails (e.g. rendering a PDF) or caching data over a completely proprietary mechanism. In order to support this, fetches are performed by objects which implement the `ISCacheHandler` protocol.

Getting Started
---------------

### Items

#### Observing

* providing an `ISCacheBlock` which will receive callbacks during the lifetime of the image fetch
* `ISCacheItem` [key-value observing](https://developer.apple.com/library/mac/documentation/cocoa/conceptual/KeyValueObserving/KeyValueObserving.html)
* implemetning the `ISCacheObserver` protocol and observing `ISCache` by means of `addObserver:` and `removeObserver:`

#### Contexts

### Images

ISCache provides a handy UIImage extension for loading images. Image loading are performed using GCD to prevent large images from blocking the UI making it ideal for use in UITableViewCells and UICollectionViewCells:

```objc
#import <ISCache/ISCache.h>

UIImage *placeholder = [UIImage imageNamed:@"placeholder.png"];

[self.imageView setImageWithIdentifier:@"http://www.example.com/image.png"
                               context:ISCacheImageContext
                           preferences:nil
                      placeholderImage:placeholder
                                 block:NULL];
```

Cached images can be resized by providing the resizing settings in the `preferences`:

```objc
[self.imageView setImageWithIdentifier:@"http://www.example.com/image.png"
                               context:ISCacheImageContext
                           preferences:@{@"width": @152.0,
                                         @"height": @152.0,
                                         @"scale": @(ISScalingCacheHandlerScaleAspectFill)}
                      placeholderImage:placeholder
                                 block:NULL];
```

#### Cancellation

Repeated calls to `setImageWithIdentifier:context:preferences:placeholderImage:completionBlock:` will cancel any previous fetches. Fetches will also be cancelled when the UIImageView is dealloced. Once a fetch is cancelled the `ISCacheBlock` will receive no further updates. If the item fetch has already completed (and the item is in state `ISCacheItemStateFound`) the cancellation will have no effect and the item will remain in the cache.

Fetches can also be explicitly cancelled as follows:

```objc
[self.imageView cancelSetImage];
```

If you wish to prevent the automatic cancellation of fetches, you can set the following property:

```objc
self.imageView.automaticallyCancelsFetches = NO;
```

### Management and observing

Once an image has been set you are free to manage the item fetch lifecycle using the mechanisms introduced in the previous sections as `setImageWithIdentifier:context:preferences:placeholderImage:block` offers the same mechanisms as the more general `fetchItem:context:preferences:block:`.

For example, a simple image fetch which displays progress and hides and shows the UIProgressView and UIImageView might use the block mechanism as follows:

```objc
// Show the progress view and hide the image view.
self.imageView.hidden = YES;
self.progressView.hidden = NO;

// Set the image.
[self.imageView setImageWithIdentifier:@"http://www.example.com/image.png"
                               context:ISCacheImageContext
                           preferences:nil
                      placeholderImage:placeholder
                                 block:^(ISCacheItem *item) {
       
                                     if (item.state == ISCacheItemStateInProgress) {
       
                                       // Update the progress view.
                                       self.progressView.visible = item.progress;
       
                                     } else if (item.state == ISCacheItemStateFound) {
       
                                       // Hide the progress view and show the image view.
                                       self.imageView.hidden = NO;
                                       self.progressView.hidden = YES;
       
                                     }
       
                                     // Indicate that we still wish to receive updates.
                                     return ISCacheBlockStateContinue;
       
                                   }];
```

*A more thorough implementation would also use the `ISCacheItemStateNotFound` state and the `lastError` property to check for unexpected errors or cancellations.*

It is also possible to combine this with direct calls to `ISCache` to determine the cache item state before showing the progress view (to avoid it flickering when the image is already present in the cache):

```objc
// Shared arguments.
NSString *url = @"http://www.example.com/image.png";
NSDictionary *userDict = nil;

// Fetch the current cache item to allow us to inspect its state.
// It is important to use the same userDict as we will use when setting the image
// as this is used to identify the item in the cache.
ISCache *defaultCache = [ISCache defaultCache];
ISCacheItem *item = [defaultCache itemForIdentifier:url
                                            context:ISCacheImageContext
                                           userDict:userDict]

// Only show the progress view if the item doesn't exist.
if (item.state == ISCacheItemStateNotFound) {
  self.imageView.hidden = NO;
  self.progressView.hidden = YES;
} else {
  self.imageView.hidden = YES;
  self.progressView.hidden = NO;
}

// Set the image.
[self.imageView setImageWithIdentifier:url
                               context:ISCacheImageContext
                           preferences:preferences
                      placeholderImage:placeholder
                                 block:^(ISCacheItem *item) {
                                     ...
                                   }];
```


Custom handlers
---------------

### Handler lifecycle

Handlers are transient objects; they exist for a single fetch attempt of a cache item.

### Registering a custom handler

In order to provide maximum flexibility, `ISCache` makes use of the factory design pattern for constructing new handlers. `ISCacheSimpleHandlerFactory` is provided as an off-the-shelf factory which will simply alloc-init any class provided so long as it implements the ISCacheHandler protocol. More complex handlers which require non-trivial initialization (e.g. to share state across handlers) will have to implement their own ISCacheHandlerFactory.

While the `ISCacheHTTPHandler` is automatically registered for the `ISCacheURLContext`, the code which does this serves as a good example of how to register your own ISCacheHandlerFactory and ISCacheHandler:

```objc
ISCache *defaultCache = [ISCache defaultCache];

ISCacheSimpleHandlerFactory *httpFactory = [ISCacheSimpleHandlerFactory
                                            factoryWithClass:[ISCacheHTTPHandler class]];
[defaultCache registerFactory:httpFactory
                   forContext:ISCacheURLContext];
```

*This code will actually cause ISCache to throw an exception as you are not allowed to register more than one handler per context.*

### Completion actions

...

Notes
-----

Future
------

Thanks
------
